blog/how-i-developed-and-deployed-my-first-multi-page-website-using-only-html-and-css.md, before:

---
title: How I developed and deployed my first multi-page website using only HTML and CSS
description: An article about learning HTML and CSS, 
author: GJ Tiquia
date: 2023-03-02
tags: {"Web Dev", "HTML", "CSS", "Netlify", "Hostinger"}
---

# How I developed and deployed my first multi-page website using only HTML and CSS

Publishing my first website is not as difficult as I thought. Here is how I created my website using only HTML and CSS, how I bought my own domain name with Hostinger and how I deploted my website on Netlify.

- add github repo link to exact commit, and say the website keeps on evolving as I learn more, might be updated.

## Website Development

### Why only HTML and CSS?

- briefly explain what is HTML and CSS
- motivation for making website only with HTML and CSS with nothing fancy

  - want to get a good solid foundation without using frameworks

  - know how things fundamentally work without CSS frameworks like Bootstrap or TailwindCSS, or JavaScript frameworks like React, Angular or Vue

    - appreciate frameworks and how they actually work under the hood in case if encounter any bugs in the future

    - extend the frameworks in the future if needed

  - finish a project
  
    - importance of finishing

    - tutorial hell

    - cement the knowledge just learnt

    - can scale or convert to another framework in the future anyways, which is exactly the case now. (reference the GitHub repo and the exact commit)

### How to learn HTML and CSS?

- freeCodeCamp

### How to develop a website with only HTML and CSS?

- vscode
- live server extension
- HTML file structure (for multi-page)
- styles.css philosophy and class naming
  - freeCodeCamp taught semantic class names, but I have a lot of reusable components, want to make as generic as possible.
  - later on learnt that this is a utility first approach, which is exactly the same philosophy behind Tailwind CSS. 

## Website Domain

### What is a Domain Name?

- terms such as domain registrar, difference between domain 

### How to find a good domain registrar?

- reference article from Google

### What domain registrars options are there?

- suggested ones from the reddit article
- Hostinger mainly for the price, but only the domain and not the server, read below to see

## Website Deployment

### What is a deployment server?

### What deployment options are there?

- Netlify (by far most popular that I find, more tutorials, more than enough free plan)
- Hostinger (heard bad things about it)

### How to deploy a site on Netlify?

- account
- own site
- link to public repo
- free => auto build only on public repo

### How to use a Custom Domain on Netlify?

- bought domain name with Hostinger
- CName
- takes up to 48 hours
- wait for the automatic SSL certificate

Commit message:

Commit from Zettel Notes at 1677924209950

blog/how-i-developed-and-deployed-my-first-multi-page-website-using-only-html-and-css.md, after:

---
title: How I developed and deployed my first multi-page website using only HTML and CSS
description: An article about learning HTML and CSS, buying a domain name from Hostinger and deploying the website on Netlify.
author: GJ Tiquia
date: 2023-03-02
tags: {"Web Dev", "HTML", "CSS", "Netlify", "Hostinger"}
---

# How I developed and deployed my first multi-page website using only HTML and CSS

Publishing my first website is not as difficult as I thought. Here is how I created my website using only HTML and CSS, how I bought my own domain name with Hostinger and how I deploted my website on Netlify.

- add github repo link to exact commit, and say the website keeps on evolving as I learn more, might be updated.

## Website Development

### Why only HTML and CSS?

- briefly explain what is HTML and CSS
- motivation for making website only with HTML and CSS with nothing fancy

  - want to get a good solid foundation without using frameworks

  - know how things fundamentally work without CSS frameworks like Bootstrap or TailwindCSS, or JavaScript frameworks like React, Angular or Vue

    - appreciate frameworks and how they actually work under the hood in case if encounter any bugs in the future

    - extend the frameworks in the future if needed

  - finish a project
  
    - importance of finishing

    - tutorial hell

    - cement the knowledge just learnt

    - can scale or convert to another framework in the future anyways, which is exactly the case now. (reference the GitHub repo and the exact commit)

### How to learn HTML and CSS?

- freeCodeCamp

### How to develop a website with only HTML and CSS?

- vscode
- live server extension
- HTML file structure (for multi-page)
- styles.css philosophy and class naming
  - freeCodeCamp taught semantic class names, but I have a lot of reusable components, want to make as generic as possible.
  - later on learnt that this is a utility first approach, which is exactly the same philosophy behind Tailwind CSS. 

## Website Domain

### What is a Domain Name?

- terms such as domain registrar, difference between domain 

### How to find a good domain registrar?

- reference article from Google

### What domain registrars options are there?

- suggested ones from the reddit article
- Hostinger mainly for the price, but only the domain and not the server, read below to see

## Website Deployment

### What is a deployment server?

### What deployment options are there?

- Netlify (by far most popular that I find, more tutorials, more than enough free plan)
- Hostinger (heard bad things about it)

### How to deploy a site on Netlify?

- account
- own site
- link to public repo
- free => auto build only on public repo

### How to use a Custom Domain on Netlify?

- bought domain name with Hostinger
- CName
- takes up to 48 hours
- wait for the automatic SSL certificate
